[Intro music]
Hi everyone, and welcome to episode two of
Make Thrift Buy. A show where you guys send
me in cool clothes that you find on the internet,
and I try and recreate that item either through
DIY or thrifting, or a combination of the
two.
Today I’m going to attempt to re-create
a clueless inspired outfit. So the original
outfit is from a store called: Glitters For
Dinner, and it’s $85 for a coordinated set,
BUT I’m pretty confident that we can get
away with making this ourselves for under
$10. So, let’s get started!
So I start with a stretchy tartan fabric that
I got second hand, and I folded it in half.
So to make the template for my top I just
take this tight fitting dress whose shape
that I like and I place this on top of the
fabric, with the middle of the dress on the fold.
[Annotation: I am adding an extra “seam allowance” of ½ an inch]
I trace around the top part of the dress,
and then I simply cut through both layers
of fabric. Then I unfolded this and I have
a top…looking…thing.
Then I repeat this step so I have two identical
pieces. One will be the front and the other
will be the back.
Now I’m going to make some darts on my top
(you totally don’t have to do this). Start
by making a marking right in the middle of
your top, and then make two more markings
three inches out or however wide you want
your darts to be. So on one of your darts
(and you’ll do this with both), but on one
of them do a dot that us about five to six
inches away from the bottom of your top. And
then make this into a triangle by making two
marks half an inch apart connecting this with
the top dot, and making a pretty triangle!
Also draw a line straight up the middle of
the triangle, and then simply fold the fabric
on this middle line, and using a straight
stitch on your sewing machine sew along the
edge of the triangle.
And you should end up with a pretty dart like
this! Repeat this on both sides.
And if I did this again, I would do the dart
on the side rather than the front, but it’s
up to your own personal preference.
[Annotation This is your lining fabric. It
doesn’t have to be the same pattern but it *MUST* be stretchy]
Then I placed each of these pieces face down,
on another piece of fabric and I pin it on,
and cut around it. And leave them pinned together.
So I do this with the front and I also do
this with the back piece as well and…ughhh…I
haven’t cut enough fabric…
I’m not cutting another piece of fabric
so I’m just going to pin this together,
cut the excess off, and hope for that my seam
allowance was wide enough.
So now that I’ve got both of the pieces
pinned together, I sew them together like
this.
[Annotation: sew around all the edges EXCEPT
for the bottom!]
And I use a zig-zag stitch.
Using a small zig-zag stitch on stretchy fabrics
is best because otherwise your thread will
break.
Now here comes the fun bit!
Turn this piece inside out, and you have a
top kind of thing! Or a hat! Yeah, I think
by this time I might have contracted sewing
madness.
In any case you should now have both a front
and a back piece sewn together with their
linings.
So you need to place these on top of each
other, front sides together, and pin them
together at the shoulders and the sides. And
then you just need to sew like this. And again,
use a zig-zag stitch.
Turn it inside out.
Wait for it.
Anddd, you’re done!
Well, almost. You’re going to need to hem
the raw edge at the bottom here. So you’ll
have two layers, the lining and the front
part. You need to fold both of these up about
an inch or so and pin them together, and you
need to do this on both the front and the
back, and then sew an inch away from the edge
all the around the front and back sides.
Now the top I was basing this off also had
a collar, but as I was feeling lazy I just
got this dress with a white collar that I
got from the Op shop, and I cut the bottom
off. Made it into a cropped kind of thing,
cut the sleeves off so you wouldn’t see
them underneath an- wore it under my top.
[music plays]
And that’s it! That’s my Clueless outfit!
Oh, and I also made a matching skirt which
I did using my circle skirt tutorial which
you can visit here to learn how to do.
So, my conclusion?
[Scissor snipping sound effect]
You can totally make this yourself. It only
took me two hours and all you need to know
is some really simple stitches.
Thanks for watching, and I’ll see you all
next time!
[outro music]